# Privacy Concerns Surrounding Flo Health and Allegations of Inappropriate Data Sharing
In this document, I discuss two articles about the data sharing practices of Flo, a popular fertility-tracking app created by Flo Health Inc. I present and discuss two different views on the privacy concerns and consequences of sharing private data about women's health.

## Article 1
The Lily, a newspaper published by The Washington Post, recently reported on data privacy issues concerning a popular period-tracking app called Flo in an article entitled [More than 100 million women use Flo, a period-tracking app. Here’s why some are deleting it.](https://www.thelily.com/more-than-100-million-women-use-flo-a-period-tracking-app-heres-why-some-are-deleting-it/)

After promising users that their data would be kept private, The Federal Trade Commission filed a complaint against Flo, claiming that the app has shared millions of user data on personal information with third-party companies such as Google and Facebook for marketing and advertising purposes. The Lily communicates the huge sense of betrayal felt among women at the fact that very personal information regarding sensitive topics such as menstruation, fertility, pregnancy, sex, and abortion was leaked for profit. Many women have deleted the app and are wary of using other tracking apps in the future. 

The outrage among women after discovering how their personal information on was being monetized underscores deep issues surrounding data privacy and ethics in technology. The stigma surrounding women's health issues makes this instance of inappropriate data sharing and exploitation of sensitive health information particularly upsetting, but this is certainly not the first time a fertility-tracking app has been discovered to have shared supposedly private data for the purpose of targeted advertising. For many women, the recurrence of the issue is an affirmation of the fact that women's health privacy is not considered as important and not protected as well as that of men. It also contributes to a general lack of trust in tech companies to protect users' privacy. This article is an example of the negative social impact of data sharing and lack of privacy in technology, specifically regarding how it contributes to distrust among the public and exacerbation of deeply entrenched issues of women's reproductive health and equality. 


## Article 2
Alisha Haridasani Gupta and Natasha Singer of The New York Times took a different approach on the issue. Their article [Your App Knows You Got Your Period. Guess Who It Told?](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/01/28/us/period-apps-health-technology-women-privacy.html) discusses the potential benefits of using data from apps like Flo to contribute to women's health research. 

Although privacy violation is a major issue when considering women's consumer health technology, this article points out that the data is a previously unavailable opportunity to address understudied issues of female health. From this perspective, the data has the potential to help address the fact that women are historically underrepresented in medical research, which has led to a multitude of misconceptions and general lack of understanding about women's health and bodies. The app also allows women to have more control over their health and and help them understand changes in their bodies as well as possible health issues.

Despite the problem of deceptive data mining and miseading privacy policies with current women's health apps, the idea of productive use of the data collected by these apps is intriguing. While the concerns regarding privacy breaches and handling of sensitive information have still not been resolved, this is a more uplifting side to a deeply concerning political economic issue. It also highlights the need for standardized regulations and privacy management frameworks to address how medical experts and researchers might collaborate with tech companies to contribute to a new understanding of women's health. Regradless, it is refreshing to consider the possible positive societal impact of continued use and development of women's consumer health technology in the future.